---
layout: download
title:  SameBoy 0.16.5
group: Downloads
cocoa: https://github.com/LIJI32/SameBoy/releases/download/v0.16.5/sameboy_cocoa_v0.16.5.zip
windows: https://github.com/LIJI32/SameBoy/releases/download/v0.16.5/sameboy_winsdl_v0.16.5.zip
ipa: https://github.com/LIJI32/SameBoy/releases/download/v0.16.5/sameboy_ios_v0.16.5.ipa
ios-deb: https://github.com/LIJI32/SameBoy/releases/download/v0.16.5/sameboy_ios_v0.16.5.deb
appstore: yes
source: https://github.com/LIJI32/SameBoy/archive/v0.16.5.zip
---
This version is backwards compatible with save states from SameBoy 0.14.3 and newer, as well as save states from any BESS compliant emulator. This version's change set includes the changes from version 0.16.4, which was exclusive to the iOS App Store.

### New/Improved Features
* The iOS frontend is now [available on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/sameboy/id6496971295)
  * The App Store version requires iOS 13 or higher, while the version targeting side-loading and jailbroken devices still supports iOS 11 and 12.
* The following new features has been added to the iOS frontend:
  * Support for MFi, PlayStation, Switch and Xbox controllers. Support includes rumble functionality, motion controls, analog controls, and button remapping.
  * A launch screen was added.
  * A new "Import ROM File" button was added to the Library screen.
  * Multiple interface themes were added.
    * The App Store version has additional themes that can be unlocked by supporting SameBoy's development.
  * The iOS frontend now shows tips and facts in the pause menu.
  * Tapping SameBoy's logo now opens the pause menu.
  * The button haptics strength can now be changed.
  * After importing a new ROM, a suitable model is automatically selected
* The default rewind duration in the Cocoa and iOS frontends was change to 2 minutes to match the SDL frontend.
* Debugger windows no longer hide when the Cocoa frontend is out of focus.
* Each debugger window now includes the ROM name in its titlebar in the Cocoa version.

### Bug Fixes
* The Cocoa and iOS frontends no longer incorrectly include the word "Version" in their version strings.
* Fixed a bug that caused filtered screenshots to be saved as 32-bit per channel on the Cocoa frontend.
* Fixed a bug affecting iPads that left the game paused under some conditions after exiting certain screens.
* Fixed incorrect handling of loading save states of an incompatible MBC RAM size.
* Fixed a visual glitch with the Monochrome LCD scaling filter, which also caused filter screenshots to be semi-transparent.
* Fixed a bug that allowed rewinding auto-loaded states back to the boot ROM in the iOS frontend, potentially losing data.
* Fixed a bug that caused the camera-change button to be positioned incorrectly on notched iPhones running the iOS frontend.

### Misc Internal Changes
* Fixed build issues when using the current master branch of RGBDS to build SameBoot.
* Fixed a false positive warning when using certain GCC versions.
* The iOS frontend's license has been updated.